Compose iOS accessibility support (#75)
JetBrains/kotlin-multiplatform-dev-docs: topics/compose/compose-ios-accessibility.md

to native accessibility properties such as `accessibilityIdentifier`. This makes semantic data from Compose Multiplatform available
to Accessibility Services and XCTest framework.

The Compose accessibility API doesn't currently support:
* Live regions (announcements about content changes in a specific area).
* [UIKit elements inside Compose Multiplatform UI](compose-ios-ui-integration.md#use-uikit-inside-compose-multiplatform). 

iOS accessibility support is in the early stages of development. If you have trouble with this feature,
we would appreciate your feedback in the [#compose-ios](https://kotlinlang.slack.com/archives/C0346LWVBJ4/p1678888063176359)
Slack channel or as an issue in the [Compose Multiplatform GitHub repo](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-multiplatform/issues). 

## Customize synchronization of the accessibility tree 

With default settings:
* The iOS accessibility tree is synchronized with the UI only when Accessibility Services are running.
* Synchronization events are not logged.

You can customize these settings with the new Compose Multiplatform API.

### Choose the tree synchronization option

> To debug and test events and interactions, you can change the synchronization mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To debug and test events and interactions, you can change the synchronization mode to:
```

> * to never sync the tree with UI (for example, to temporarily disable accessibility mapping),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Never synchronize the tree with UI, for example, to temporarily disable accessibility mapping.
```

> * to always sync the tree, so that it is rewritten every time the UI updates (to thoroughly test the accessibility integration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Always synchronize the tree so that it is rewritten every time the UI updates to test the accessibility integration thoroughly.
```

[//]: # (title: Support for iOS accessibility features)

> Compose Multiplatform accessibility support for iOS allows people with disabilities to interact with Compose Multiplatform UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compose Multiplatform accessibility support allows people with disabilities to interact with the Compose Multiplatform UI
```

> as comfortably as with native UIs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as comfortably as with the native iOS UI:
```

* Screen readers and VoiceOver can access the content of the Compose Multiplatform UI.

> * Compose Multiplatform UI supports the same gestures as the native UIs for navigation and interaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Compose Multiplatform UI supports the same gestures as the native iOS UI for navigation and interaction.
```

This is possible because semantics data produced by Compose APIs is now mapped to native objects and properties
that are consumed by iOS Accessibility Services. For most interfaces built with Material widgets, this should happen
automatically.

You can also use this semantic data in testing and other automation: properties such as `testTag` will correctly map
to native accessibility properties such as `accessibilityIdentifier`. This makes semantic data from Compose Multiplatform available
to Accessibility Services and XCTest framework.

> Notable limitations of the current accessibility support:

Reviewer: I think here you can move the repetitive part to the list's intro:

The Compose accessibility API doesn't currently cover(support):
* Live regions, announcements about..
* UIKit elements inside Compose Multiplatform UI.

* Live regions (announcements about content changes in a specific area) are not supported yet.
* [UIKit elements inside Compose Multiplatform UI](compose-ios-ui-integration.md#use-uikit-inside-compose-multiplatform)
are not currently covered by the Compose accessibility API. 

iOS accessibility support is in the early stages of development. If you have trouble with this feature,
we would appreciate your feedback in the [#compose-ios](https://kotlinlang.slack.com/archives/C0346LWVBJ4/p1678888063176359)

> Slack channel, or as an issue in the [Compose Multiplatform GitHub repo](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-multiplatform/issues). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Slack channel or as an issue in the [Compose Multiplatform GitHub repo](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-multiplatform/issues). 
```

## Customize accessibility tree synchronization

By default, the iOS accessibility tree is synchronized with the UI only when Accessibility Services are running;

> by default, no accessibility logs are written.

Reviewer: The "accessibility logs part" doesn't seem to be relevant to the tree synchronization section. If you remove it, there wouldn't be the "by default" repetition

Author: The API allows both to control the sync behavior and logging of the synchronization events, so more of a the fact that logging doesn't seem to be relevant is a bigger problem :)

I rephrased for clarity.

You can customize this behavior, for example, when you want to debug events and interactions:

> activate the option to always synchronize the accessibility tree, so that the tree is rewritten every time the UI updates.

Reviewer: The sentence is quite long, maybe split it after the colon?

> > Always synchronizing the tree can be quite useful for debugging and testing, but be aware that there is a significant

Reviewer: A part of the second sentence repeats the section's intro, I think we can safely shorten this tip to:

> Constant synchronizing (or Constant synchronization of) the tree can be quite useful for debugging and testing but can degrade your app's performance.

Also, it look likes rather important, maybe turn it into a note?

> overhead associated with this. Synchronizing the tree with the UI regardless of Accessibility Services can degrade
> the performance of your app.
>
> {type="tip"}

Compose Multiplatform [provides APIs](#accessibility-apis) to configure the tree sync behavior:

> modify the `accessibilitySyncOptions` parameter inside the `configure` block of a `ComposeUIViewController` call:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
modify the `accessibilitySyncOptions` parameter inside the `configure {}` block of a `ComposeUIViewController` call:
```

```kotlin
 ComposeUIViewController(configure = {
     accessibilitySyncOptions = AccessibilitySyncOptions.Always(object: AccessibilityDebugLogger {
         override fun log(message: Any?) {
             if (message == null) {
                 println()
             } else {
                 println("[a11y]: $message")
             }
         }
     })
 }) {
    // your @Composable content
 }
```

## Accessibility APIs

> The following APIs provided by Compose Multiplatform help you customize iOS accessibility behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compose Multiplatform provides the following APIs to help you customize iOS accessibility behavior.
```

The `AccessibilityDebugLogger` interface contains the logging function to be used for debugging:

```kotlin
// package androidx.compose.ui.platform

@ExperimentalComposeApi
interface AccessibilityDebugLogger {

    // Logs the message to the debug logger, or null as a separator of log blobs
    fun log(message: Any?)
}
```

### AccessibilitySyncOptions

The `AccessibilitySyncOptions` class contains available options for synchronizing the accessibility tree:

```kotlin
// package androidx.compose.ui.platform

@ExperimentalComposeApi
sealed class AccessibilitySyncOptions {
    
    // Option to never synchronize the accessibility tree
    object Never: AccessibilitySyncOptions

    // Option to synchronize the tree only when Accessibility Services are running
    //
    // You can include an AccessibilityDebugLogger to log interactions and tree syncing events
    class WhenRequiredByAccessibilityServices(debugLogger: AccessibilityDebugLogger?)

    // Option to always synchronize the accessibility tree
    //
    // You can include an AccessibilityDebugLogger to log interactions and tree syncing events
    class Always(debugLogger: AccessibilityDebugLogger?)
}
```

> ## What's next?

Reviewer: That could be a list of actions as well:

* Try out the project generated by..
* Learn about  [recourse qualifiers](compose-images-resources.md) that will be helpful..
